# Summaries for Age-Associated datasets

Summary results are combined for age-associated datasets TCGA and METABRIC data sources. A summary table is generated by [this script](https://github.com/BCCRCMO/BrCa_Age_Associated/blob/master/main/code/Analysis_AgeAssociated_GeneCounts/AgeAssociated_GeneCounts.R) to compare TCGA and METABRIC cancers on the numbers of Entrez Gene IDs with statistical and biological significance across different levels of absolute fold change. The [full table](https://github.com/BCCRCMO/BrCa_Age_Associated/blob/master/main/code/Analysis_AgeAssociated_GeneCounts/AgeAssociated_GeneCounts.csv) shows both gene and probe counts, FDR level, as well as the count, proportion, and percentage of age-associated biomarkers for each dataset (and their subsets). Note that small proportions and percentages were truncated to an inequality.

For the paper, we use a [main table](https://github.com/BCCRCMO/BrCa_Age_Associated/blob/master/main/code/Analysis_AgeAssociated_GeneCounts/AgeAssociated_GeneCounts_Main.csv) that omits probe counts and data sources created by the gender partition. Additionally, the METABRIC cases are filtered for only those with matching expression in the TCGA data, constraining the total counts at 18950. This makes the comparisons in the table more meaningful when considering only the overlapping gene loci.

A [supplementary version](https://github.com/BCCRCMO/BrCa_Age_Associated/blob/master/main/code/Analysis_AgeAssociated_GeneCounts/AgeAssociated_GeneCounts_Supp.csv) uses probe counts and does not apply the aforementioned filter on METABRIC cases, in order to reflect that the analytical results for METABRIC were carried out on the full set of 48803 probes.

A [cross-data source comparison](https://github.com/BCCRCMO/BrCa_Age_Associated/blob/master/main/code/Analysis_AgeAssociated_GeneCounts/AgeAssociated_GeneSimilarities.pdf) of similar age-associated genes was carried out on METABRIC, TCGA (Breast, Lung, Kidney, Prostate, Thyroid) at significance levels

- FDR = 0.05, FC = 1.25
- FDR = 0.01, FC = 1.25
- FDR = 0.01, FC = 2
- FDR = 0.01, FC = 4

across the matched 18950 probes. Each of the contingency tables shows the number of shared/unshared age-associated genes, as well as Fisher Exact Test statistics.